the american constitution was written in
the 18th century
people seem to think it's virtuous to
believe in the constitution people
think certainly
it's virtuous to believe in freedom of
speech as it is defined
by the american constitution and the
american constitution went on to
influence
the rest of the world but the american
constitution
is a relic of the 18th century
why does it say so simply and so
absolutely
that the government shall make no law
abridging
freedom of speech and why does it say
that everyone
should be able to own and carry a gun
in the 18th century in england
and the united states of america they
didn't have such a problem with
defamation
they didn't have such a problem with
libel laws
because they had dueling
men would fight duels
over a point of honor
and that could be an insult that could
be a rumor it could be a criticism
it could be something that one man said
about another man
that was perfectly reasonable
and true but nobody had to hire a lawyer
and if you weren't strong and healthy
enough to fight for yourself
you could ask your older brother to do
it you could even pay a mercenary to do
it
people would kill each other
over minor insults
and we today take this scrap of paper
we take this sentence in the american
constitution
out of its cultural and historical
context and we imagine that we can have
a working society
based on this simplified notion
of freedom of speech without personal
responsibility
for what it is you've said for what it
is you've done
and instead of describing the criticism
and then proceeding to engage it and
refute it or even
instead of mocking it instead what they
proceeded to do
is something that has become extremely
commonplace
extremely commonplace in liberal
media and in liberal politics and
because it's so commonplace we are
starting to overlook
how odious and pernicious and
toxic and destructive and reprehensible
it is in particular what they did was in
response to aaron mate's criticism
they accused aaron jank accused aaron of
being quote
paid by the russians and anna kasparian
in a way went even further because she
didn't even
state anything definitively she used a
vague innuendo
to say that she believes that aaron mate
is working for despicable dictators oh
aaron
right the guy who denies that syrian
children were killed with chemical
attacks yeah yeah
and gets paid by the yeah anyway let's
move on let's end the freaking pot i
can't i can't
okay see that's what happened i can't
stand
and i can't stand the very intentional
disinformation they put out there
in regard to disgusting dictators
around the world the very people they
seem to be working for to be quite
honest with you
let's move on they accuse somebody a
journalist
of being paid by the russians even
though
jank yuger who made that accusation has
no
evidence of any kind to support that
accusation let alone improve
he doesn't even have any grounds for
reasonable suspicion
that it's true but even if he did it
wouldn't make it any justifiable because
you note that he said it as
fact aaron mate is the guy who is paid
by the russians he's paid by a foreign
government a foreign adversary of the
united states he's an
agent of a foreign power that's what
jank yuger said about aaron mate with no
evidence
so that was on may 26th we are now
a month and a week later they have
never apologized for those comments
presented evidence for them retracted
them it is almost impossible for people
especially heterosexual men who are most
vulnerable
to these kinds of tactics to survive in
liberal life politics because at any
moment anyone can accuse you of anything
and no evidence is required scott
stringer has been in public life for
30 years and out of the blue someone
pops up and for the first time ever
accuses him
of having groped her 18 years ago she
never told anybody about it
and his reputation and his candidacy is
instantly destroyed
there are anonymous twitter accounts
right as we speak
doing this against youtubers and writers
and commentators who are on the left or
who are liberals who are spouting
opinions that people dislike and even
with no name attached to it
their reputations are getting rude so
what anna kasparian did here
with that little message i've not said
this about you i've kept it to myself
and
now that you're criticizing us that's
all going to change
that is grotesque that is
ethically repugnant fabricating
accusations that someone is paid by the
russian government
to discredit them and destroy the
reputation and weaponizing
weaponizing accusations of sexual
harassment or other forms of toxicity
and abuse
including against people who have never
even met the supposed victim
knowing that people are too scared
to defend anybody who's accused of that
because the minute you step forward and
defend somebody accused of that you
yourself get accused when i started
defending alex morse
when those allegations first emerged
everybody who wanted to attack alex
morris and defend richie neil said oh
glenn greenwald is defending alex morris
only for one reason
because alex morse likes to teenage
boys and so does glenn greenwald
everyone knows what's gonna happen
if you try and defend somebody who's
unjustly
accused of no evidence in these cases
they count on that intimidation factor
and that's what was just done to jimmy
dore
culture has the potential to change
politics
but with the passage of years with the
passage of decades with the passage
of centuries it is a certainty
that politics transforms the culture
some of you have been watching this
youtube channel for many years some of
you
welcome it's your first time ever seeing
my face or hearing my voice
people who know me for a long time might
be expecting me
to offer the sort of personal
reflections
glenn greenwald just offered about
ridiculous
allegations that have been made against
me and the terrible
long-term effects they've had in my life
still to this day
the google search results you'll get
when you put my name in still this day
allegations made against me by other
residents living in my same apartment
building
who defamed me who blacken my character
and you back it up by saying just google
his name
just look at this link on reddit i have
to live with that
forever that's not what i have to say
what i have to say is that we're living
through a transitional period
in the civilization not just the united
states not just of england
not just to the whole western world
we're living through a transitional
period
on planet earth where we have to go back
and re-examine some of the most
fundamental
tenets some of those fundamental
assertions made
in politics we have to let ourselves
really radically re-evaluate the extent
to which
they're bad and evil and wrong the
doctrine of freedom of speech
set down in the american constitution i
am telling you
is fundamentally bad
and evil and wrong none of you would
even raise your own children this way
you can't possibly organize a society
this way what a terrible thing
to tell people as the first and only
principle of freedom of speech
that no law will be made
to a bridget
and then how it is defamation law
how do laws trying despite
this grand proclamation trying to
delimit your freedom of speech trying to
create some sense of personal
responsibility for the damage done
by your use of speech how do they then
creep in around the edges of that system
that set down that grandiose absolute
first principle that no
law whatsoever will abridge your freedom
of speech
historically those laws crept in
precisely because there was a struggle
to make
dueling illegal a struggle that took
place
on a somewhat different timeline over
about 150 years
in france in italy in germany
in england and in the united states of
america it would be fair to say
that between 1776
and 1876
dueling was in its final century and it
endured longer in some places than
others in russia
for example well into the 19th century
you've got
quite a lot of dueling there's a
misconception
that dueling was a luxury only enjoyed
by aristocrats
no it wasn't it's just that there are
fewer newspaper articles written about
poor people
killing each other or a point of honor
about peasants doing it
all right it was a fundamental part not
just of english culture not just a
french culture it was a fundamental part
of western civilization
and any journalists at the at the dawn
of the technology
of the newspaper any journalist knew
that he could be called out on the
street
over a point of honor and people in that
culture
were not ashamed to
fight and die in the street
okay even get a sense of this in some of
the plays of of shakespeare
to us today what a low and dirty thing
to have a knife fight in the street to
have a sword fight in the street yes
it's the same thing
to have a gun fight in the street we
associate that with
drug dealers with poor people but in
their culture
at that time that was the noblest thing
imaginable that was yes what a true
aristocrat did
and a common poor tradesman let's say
would rise to the level of an aristocrat
by standing up on a point of honor and
doing the same thing
all right they worshipped that they
idealized that that was the pinnacle
of manly virtue and if you read any
primary source material
from the time it comes up again and
again i read the autobiography of a man
who was in america in that early
colonial period it's not worth telling
the whole story of what this book was
and
he was an interesting but deeply flawed
character he was anti-slavery but he was
in favor of all kinds of other immoral
things
and i remember him just saying there
will be no social progress
in the united states of america until
they abolish
legal murder and he had an example that
he read about and talked to people about
in the newspapers of that time when he
was
living in early independence
post-revolutionary
united states america the first decades
the new republic
and um was a group of young men
who went to an island as a logging
party so you can imagine in those days
technology was limited you take a boat
over
you'd stay for a couple of months
cutting down trees and getting them
ready to go and
setting them up for a boat to carry them
with a boat would come back and take the
wood and take you
take the take the workers back also from
the island it's the cost of
transportation it's
limited and he said something like 10
men
went across to the island and only four
came back alive
because while they were there they had
disputes with one another that they
settled
through duels and some of the mothers or
wives of these men who had died
tried to bring a legal complaint and the
attitude of the judges
the attitude of the illegal system well
as long as there was some as long as
there was some dispute between as long
as they were settling a quarrel
this is perfectly fine and normal okay
this is a deep profound part
of western culture again none of you
would raise your children this way
none of you would raise your children to
say oh well
you know there can be no principle
whatsoever to
abridge your freedom of speech accept
your fear
for your own life let's be very clear
about the nature of a duel
it is not the case that duels
distinguish right from wrong
an innocent man can die in a duel
just as well as the guilty one right
the nature of a duel is that it will
either be disturbed me
it will either be decided by strength
by skill by military prowess or just by
dumb luck who lives or who dies
so oh yeah 18th century america and
probably a century earlier earlier in
england frankly you know maybe you're
talking more about 16th century england
even 15th century
oh yeah yeah yeah you can say anything
you want
but every single time you open your
mouth
you're putting your life on the line
okay
and now the centuries have gone by and
we've held on to just
one little piece of that principled view
of the world the view of the world that
as i say is fundamentally bad
and evil and wrong and we've forgotten
about the rest we've we've held on to
the concept of personal freedom
and mysteriously we lost our grip on the
even
more important concept
of personal responsibility of taking
responsibility
for the consequences and let's be all
the way real here living in fear
of the consequences if you were raising
a child
or if you were writing a new
constitution day how might how might the
paragraph
on freedom of speech begin couldn't it
begin
with a statement more like this couldn't
it begin with a statement to the effect
that you are responsible for everything
you say
publicly or privately for the rest of
your life
that you are responsible for any harm
that your words may do intentionally
or unintentionally and the paragraph
could go on
to detail the difference between
something that is said with good
intentions
so let's say with bad intentions someone
said that is true
but that damages a person's life you
might expose a secret about a person
that is that is true and it might be
well intentioned
but it might ruin their careers and
saying something that is false
and then is it intentionally false
is it false but you were sincerely
misled by someone else
telling you falsely it doesn't take a
genius
it doesn't take a genius to break down
into a series of different
columns what freedom of speech means
what being responsible for your use of
freedom of speech means
in the 21st century and you know what it
meant
all the same things in the 18th century
they just cope with it in a very
different way they cope with it
through a culture of indescribable
violence